Essay one:

I'm not quite sure how to begin with this. I was required to see one film. This in no way prepares me to discuss how Italian art is different from art in my home country. Even 'home country' is a difficult thing to pin down. If I had to say, my aesthetic 'home base' is the internet. And that country knows few boundaries. Comparing the one movie I saw to the immense daily digital output of mankind would sort of be like comparing Italy to itself. If you follow that strain of logic, it all becomes a wash. Sure, I can see how the one film I saw fits into the archetypal and universal motifs of humanity. But of Italy? I would have to see one hundred modern Italian films and plays before I could even begin to feel comfortable finding 'themes' between them.

I saw 'Terraferma' by the way. I should probably mention that. Even in the Q & A with the editor I can find evidence for my above claims. She stated that the film, while being topical, was certainly an over dramatization. I have no idea which parts were dramatized and which parts weren't, so I have to assume it all was, and with that information this little 'window' in Italian culture I'm left with is blurry at best. I can just make out human forms and themes, nothing specific. There was a boy who was living with his parents. That happens everywhere. Large numbers of people were trying to enter the country illegally. Not an event unique to Italy. The government was belligerently cruel. Where have I seen that before?

If it's ironically unclear, I'm trying to point out that a blurry picture of a culture just leaves you with a picture of humanity. While I can not certainly say that this movie taught me something about Italian culture I can confide in, I can say it certainly reinforced many of the ideas humanity has about itself that I've witnessed.

In general I'm a strong believer in the idea that the walls we set up to differentiate ourselves from others (i.e. political borders, race, religion, etc) are a waste of time to consider. They don't actually exist - if we all stopped caring about them they'd just go away. What IS true is that we're all human, that we all have human characteristics. The tendency to divide ourselves into different groups to make everything easier for us to process is only one of those characteristics.

You ask me to state what role the artist plays in society - I say that's up to the artist. There is one thing I personally like to see artists doing, though; reminding everyone of their humanity. Uniting us. It's completely invaluable because god knows we're our own worst enemy. I'm sorry, but it's completely against my nature to write what I feel to be an inartistic essay, one which further deepens the line between me and someone else, about a work of art. Funnily enough, Terraferma works very hard to defend the point of view I've sketched out here. You should watch the movies you assign more closely before you push hundreds of students to commit tragic hypocrisies.

Their response:
Waiting to read more of your considerations about humanity and the "we are all the same" refrain in the next blogs. After all, this is a puzzle, so more pieces will be handed on to you the longer you stay here, the more movies you see, the more churches or monuments you enter/visit, the more people you meet, the more nuances in the language you are able to understand, the more you get used to the urban or rural landscape etc.. Eventually one of the pieces of the puzzle that you will encounter will resonate with you and you can start your reflections from there. And while there is no doubt that we all are humans and share the same humanity, humans in different parts of the world have developed different tools to address and describe the usual human questions, whether in relation to the body, the soul, common living etc. that's why I think it is interesting to compare.

My Re-Post:
First of all I sincerely apologize that I missed the meeting yesterday evening. I don't really have a legitimate excuse, as I received your email late last night, too late for me to attend. I would be happy to meet with you separately if such a thing can be arranged.



If it isn't too unorthodox, I'd like to submit my re-post as a response to your response;



Firstly, I will not be strong-armed by poor grades. I plan to challenge your conceptions, not reinforce them. While I may not always be right, as is the case with everyone, I believe debate is the only way to truly converge upon the appropriate solution, not a docile acceptance of the status quo. If you feel that is unsatisfactory, then so be it. That being said, there was one thing that you said that stuck out to me - the concept of cultural tools. This is a valid point. I theorize that social 'evolution' functions much like actual evolution, in that groups of people, separated from the rest of humanity, are bound to stumble upon trends or memes which become easily accessible to those in the general vicinity. Sort of like inside jokes. Unlike actual evolution, however, social evolutions don't modify our intrinsic capacities. I would be quicker to call them 'social explorations' or 'reflections' as these memes in fact reflect different parts of what it means to be human and are results derived from the function of our humanity. The only differences between 'Italians' or 'Americans' are the memes that happened to surface in their presence. Being an individual, I can, at any given moment, choose to utilize whichever of these memes/tools I fancy . So can EVERYONE. ELSE. This is the fundamental social principle that is harmonious throughout all of mankind. This is why I refuse to see any one person or group of people as a discreet set of cultural memes.

From this I feel like it might be interesting to argue that at any given point and time on this earth, different aspects, or veins, of humanity are being tapped and emphasized by the set of cultural tools available there. Someone I was discussing with earlier today helped me come to the conclusion that culture is a sort of philosophy... and I would go so far as to say that, taking into consideration the overlap between different cultural tool sets, an incomplete philosophy. At each of these different earthly points, the cultural tools of the region are only exploiting some of humanity’s veins. I imagine an enormous Venn diagram where manly cultural sets overlap at the center and the entire graph is surrounded by a bold circle entitled 'humanity'. As I am not omniscient, I have no way to say if any one culture has managed to fully exploit every human vein, nor could I say if that were true of all the cultures in all the world (or analogously, that my imaginary Venn diagram fills the entire circle which surrounds it). I can postulate, however, that this is the ultimate goal of culture - to tap into every aspect of humanity, converging into and becoming its total representation. To crassly modify (and misuse) Nietzsche’s term, it would be an uberculture.